Teaser block docs (#4461)
plone/volto: docs/source/blocks/blocks-core/teaser.md

---
myst:
  html_meta:
    "description": "Volto Teaser Block description and developer notes"
    "property=og:description": "Volto Teaser Block description and developer notes"
    "property=og:title": "Volto Teaser Block"
    "keywords": "Volto, React, blocks, teaser, Plone"
---

(teaser-block)=

# Teaser Block

> Volto comes with a Teaser block that given a content object as target is able to pull information from it and show it in the block.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Volto comes with a Teaser block, which when given a content object as a target, is able to pull information from the targeted content object and show it in the block.
```

Author: This one was outdated already, modified by other amendment.

Reviewer: Nope. I started another review. Please stand by.

> Volto comes with a Teaser block that given a content object as target is able to pull information from it and show it in the block.

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```{versionadded} Volto 16.14.0
```

Volto comes with a Teaser block that given a content object as target is able to pull information from it and show it in the block.
````

> By default, this information is the `title`, `description`, `preview_image` and shows them in a summary (Image on left, title, description) way.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, this information includes the `title`, `description`, and `preview_image`.
It shows them in a summary layout, with the image on the left, and the title and description on the right, with the description below the title.
```

Please add a screenshot. For syntax https://6.docs.plone.org/contributing/myst-reference.html#images-and-figures Also screenshots need to be kept at <=760 pixels wide, if possible, so that they are legible in the docs.

> ## Blocks settings

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Settings
```

The Teaser has the following settings:

Target

> : The target is either an existing content item in your Plone site that can be selected by clicking the list icon, or an external URL that can be typed into the text field and saved by clicking the right arrow when it appears after you start typing.

Reviewer: Anytime we describe interactions with the UI, we should provide a screenshot or video. Then this could be reused for the User Manual.

Author: I copied over the user manual without paying much attention that it was describing the UI... sorry about that. My intention is that since this is the developer guide, we only mention the settings. Let me fix it.

Title
: The title is the title of the content item.

Head title
: The head title is a heading that appears above the title.

Description
: The description is plain text that summarizes or describes the content item.

Image override
: The image override is either an existing image in your Plone site that can be selected by clicking the list icon, or an external URL of an image that can be typed into the text field and saved by clicking the right arrow when it appears after you start typing.

> ## Style Wrapper Properties

Reviewer: We use sentence case for headings, with proper nouns in Title Case and acronyms in uppercase.

```suggestion
## Style wrapper properties
```

> The Teaser has a styling property to align the image. The image can be aligned left (default), right and top.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Teaser has a styling property to align the image.
The image can be aligned to the left (default), right, or top.
```

> The styling wrapper properties can be extended using: {ref}`blocks-style-wrapper-label`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The styling wrapper properties can be extended using the {ref}`block-style-wrapper-label`.
```

## Variations

> By default, the Teaser have a default variation, but this can be extended using block variations

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A Teaser block has a default variation.
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> The variations can be extended using: {ref}`extensions-block-variations`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A variation can be extended using {ref}`extensions-block-variations`.
```

> ## Data Adapter

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Data adapter
```

> The Teaser has a data adapter function that allows you to tap into the changes in the settings, and being able to issue changes in other settings fields.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Teaser has a data adapter function that allows you to both tap into the changes in the settings and issue changes in other settings fields.
```

This is valuable in the Teaser block because it saves an internal cache of the target element.

> If you select the target, these values are updated. Also, when you update the target, these values remain (default behavior), but you can issue another behavior.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you select the target, these values are updated.
When you update the target, by default these values remain, but you can issue another behavior.
```

> The data adapter function is defined in the block's settings `dataAdapter`, so you can override it and add your own, if required.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The data adapter function is defined in the block's setting `dataAdapter`.
You can override it and add your own function, if required.
```

> This is the default adapter (you should stick to his signature):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following is the default adapter.
You should stick to this signature in your custom adapters.
```

```js
import { isEmpty } from 'lodash';

export const TeaserBlockDataAdapter = ({
  block,
  data,
  id,
  onChangeBlock,
  value,
}) => {
  let dataSaved = {
    ...data,
    [id]: value,
  };
  if (id === 'href' && !isEmpty(value) && !data.title && !data.description) {
    dataSaved = {
      ...dataSaved,
      title: value[0].Title,
      description: value[0].Description,
      head_title: value[0].head_title,
    };
  }
  onChangeBlock(block, dataSaved);
};

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

```

## Custom components in registry

> The Teaser block looks up for a couple of components in the registry, that you can provide in case that you want to modify the default behavior.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Teaser block looks up a couple of components in the registry that you can provide in case you want to modify the default behavior.
```

### Image component

> The image component used in the Teaser can be overriden using your own custom image component.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The image component used in the Teaser can be overridden using your own custom image component.
```

> By default, it uses a simple `<img />` tag, with this signature:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, it uses an `<img />` tag with the following signature.
```

```jsx
<Image
  src={hasImageComponent ? href : defaultImageSrc}
  alt=""
  loading="lazy"
/>
```

> ### Content type dependant Body component

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Content type dependent `Body` component
```

The Teaser component supports specifying a custom component depending on the target content type.

> You can provide your own component registering a component like in your add-on config:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can provide your own component, registering a component, for example, in your add-on configuration as shown below.
```

```js
import NewsItem from './components/Blocks/Teaser/NewsItem';

...

  config.registerComponent({
    name: 'Teaser',
    component: NewsItem,
    dependencies: 'News Item',
  });
```

> The `name` must be `Teaser` but then, as a dependency, you must provide the name of the content type.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `name` must be `Teaser`, but then as a dependency you must provide the name of the content type.
```

> After this, if you select a content type `News Item` as target of the teaser, the `Body` component used will be `NewsItem` instead of the default one.

Reviewer: I noticed that `News Item` and `NewsItem` have different spacing. Is that deliberate or a typo?

```suggestion
After this, if you select a content type `News Item` as the target of the teaser, the `Body` component used will be `NewsItem` instead of the default one.
```

Author: yes, one is the component name in the example.

> ## Custom Body component

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Custom `Body` component
```

> The Teaser body provides a default `Body` component that can be overriden.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Teaser body provides a default `Body` component that can be overridden.
```

> Although it can be done via component shadowing, it is recommended that you override it using the `variations` block settings field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Although it can be done via component shadowing, it is recommended that you override it using the `variations` block setting field.
```

```js
import CustomTeaserBlockDefaultBody from './components/Blocks/Teaser';

...

    variations: [
      {
        id: 'default',
        isDefault: true,
        title: 'Default',
        template: CustomTeaserBlockDefaultBody,
      },
    ],
```

The custom content type `Body` component mentioned in the previous section is compatible with this customization.
In this case, the content type customization will take precedence, if it matches with the content type of the target.

## Migration from `volto-blocks-grid`

> From Volto 16.14.0 the Teaser block as it's in `volto-blocks-grid` add-on version 7.0.0 is included in Volto core.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
From Volto 16.14.0 the Teaser block, as it's in the `volto-blocks-grid` add-on version 7.0.0, is included in Volto core.
```

> Because of the add-on config priority, if you have `volto-blocks-grid` installed in your project, the Teaser block from the add-on (and your project amendments to the config, if any) will be applied and used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Because of the add-on configuration priority, if you have `volto-blocks-grid` installed in your project, the Teaser block from the add-on (and your project amendments to the configuration, if any) will be applied and used.
```

> In case you want to use the core one, you need to re-apply the core configuration for the Teaser block in your project or add-ons.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In case you want to use the core Teaser block, you need to re-apply the core configuration for the Teaser block in your project or add-ons.
```
